[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory, and we have
an amazing program for you.
Paul Selig is with us.
He's a spiritual channeler.
And what does that mean?
Well, we'll get into that.
But I want you to take a
little look at who he is.
[PIANO MUSIC]
>>PAUL SELIG: I hear.
I'm a clairaudient
and I'm an empath.
So I hear things
and I feel things.
I use the word
channel because it's
the word that seems to be the
most appropriate to what I do.
Some people call me a medium.
And to the extent
that I'm operating
as a medium between two
levels of consciousness,
that's appropriate.
But channel is the word that
I'm most comfortable with.
>>NOORY: Now that was a
documentary done on Paul's life
several years ago.
Paul, welcome to Beyond Belief.
>>SELIG: Thanks for having me.
>>NOORY: Tell me
about the little dog.
That was cute.
>>SELIG: That's Darla.
She's gone.
I haven't seen her
for a couple years.
>>NOORY: Oh no.
>>SELIG: She passed.
But she was great.
And she actually
loved the channeling.
She used to sit in
my lap when I'd work,
and she'd go knock right
out into the energy.
>>NOORY: She was sweet.
How old was she when she passed?
>>SELIG: She was 12
when she went, yeah.
>>NOORY: Yeah, that's kind
of young for a small dog,
isn't it?
>>SELIG: Yeah well
she was a rescue.
She could have been 100.
Who knows, you know?
>>NOORY: Yeah, who knows?
Who knows?
Well good for you
for doing that, too.
You saved a soul.
>>SELIG: Ah, thanks.
>>NOORY: You've been
a spiritual channeler
and empath for how long now?
And how did that
all happen for you?
>>SELIG: Well you know
I'm a clairaudient,
and channeling is the way the
clairaudience works with me.
I opened up psychically
when I was in my mid 20s.
Or, I began to open up.
And I didn't believe
in any of this stuff
really before it
started to happen.
And I studied a form
of energy healing
when I was in my early 30s.
And I found that when I
had my hands on people,
I could hear things for them.
So if I had my
head on your chest
and I heard the name Mark, I
learned to say, who's Mark?
And you'd say, oh that's my
brother, my father, my son.
And as people began to
validate the information,
I began to trust
what was coming more.
And the channel began to open.
So I say that I'm like a radio.
And when I'm channeling
I'm attuned to a broadcast
from a higher level and my
guides are coming through.
If I'm tuned into you, you're
the station that I'm playing,
and I'm hearing
you telepathically,
or the people that
you ask about.
>>NOORY: How do you
tune in to someone?
>>SELIG: By intention.
You know, I use the full name.
I like the full name.
That works for me, because
there's a real resonance to it.
So for example if
Jane Smith comes to me
and I tune into Jane
Smith through the name,
I get all of Jane Smith.
If Jane Smith was married
to a guy named Clark, where
she was traumatized and
she dropped the name Clark,
a whole piece of her actually
will come through to me
through Jane Clark Smith.
So I use the whole name,
because different parts of us
develop and sort of have
experiences at different times
that I can tune into.
But it's not a lot
different than, say,
a psychic who would hold your
watch and get the vibration.
>>NOORY: And get that feeling.
>>SELIG: I'm just using the
name as what I step into.
But I'm actually stepping
into you when I'm reading.
So I sort of become you.
It's not like I'm just
sort of tuning into you
and seeing what I
can see and hear.
I actually first
become you, and then
as you, I feel what's
going on, or you're
going to tell me
what's going on.
And then when you ask about
people, I step into them,
and sometimes I start
to resemble them.
And it's kind of like
being a human switchboard.
That's the best way
to look at what I do.
>>NOORY: When people come to
you, Paul, what do they want?
What are they asking for?
>>SELIG: You know,
it can be anything.
I mean, some people
come for business
and they want to know what
the board of directors
is going to do.
But most people are
coming because they're
at a time in their life where
they're knowing that there's
something that's
not working well,
and they don't know what it is.
So I'm not the guy to go
to for your lucky numbers.
I don't think the guides that
I work with could care less.
>>NOORY: Yeah, you're not going
to give us Powerball, are they?
>>SELIG: They're not
going to give us numbers.
No, they're not
going to do that.
But they will say
why you are stuck,
and perhaps where
that part of you that
is unable to move, or
fix a relationship,
or have a relationship,
was created.
And then go to that time, and
then move the energy from it.
So for example I
get like, moms who
are estranged from
their kids, or couples
that are in
transition, or people
that are living a life that
makes no sense to them anymore,
even though they were doing
exactly what they thought
that they were supposed to do.
>>NOORY: You're like
a counselor too.
>>SELIG: Well in a
way, but I'm not.
I'm listening to them, so
there's an aspect of them
that's actually at a higher
level that is telling me,
you know, what's
really going on.
So you can come in saying,
wow, it's so great to meet you.
I'm so happy, my
life is so great.
And I close my eyes
I tune into you.
And you're furious.
And I feel the fury.
And then I ask what
the fury is about.
And I'll usually get it.
I'll say, boy, you're really
angry at your husband.
You know, and they'll
go, oh no, I'm not.
>>NOORY: But they know they are.
>>SELIG: They know they are.
And then I tune into the husband
and I start to look like them,
and then their jaw drops.
And then they begin to
trust it and we sort of
go into the conversation that's
happening at a higher level.
So I'm not a
counselor, you know.
I don't I don't claim that.
But my guides are pretty good.
And they actually
know more than I do,
and they'll usually come through
to support people in what they
need to evolve through.
And that would be the
better use of the word.
Because my guides
don't fix people.
They say it's not
about fixing things,
it's about becoming who we
truly are in a higher way
and expressing that.
And then our life
gets to reflect it.
>>NOORY: Do you deal more, Paul,
with the living or the dead?
>>SELIG: You know, I'm
odd in that I'm known
as a medium for the living.
Now the living are operating
on a station like a broadcast
band, a bandwidth that I can
access very, very easily.
It's somewhat rare for me not
to be able to hear somebody.
And sometimes when I tune into
somebody and I can't hear them,
that's because they're
completely blocked
and they're refusing
to be heard.
But it doesn't happen a lot.
People who have crossed,
I can tune into them.
But I'll feel them, or begin
to take on their demeanor
as they were when
they were alive.
So it's like I'm not
operating in time.
If they want to come
through with a message,
perhaps they will.
And that happens
with some frequency.
But I don't call myself
a spiritual channel.
And their work is primarily
with people who have crossed.
What I am able to do,
which is odd, I think,
is hear people
that have no voice.
Sometimes they've
lost-- I mean, I
tune in to people with
Alzheimer's perhaps,
for their kids.
Or, I've read very
effectively for people
that have, frankly,
been in comas,
or have locked-in syndrome.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>SELIG: And I can feel them.
I become them, you see.
And then I feel as them.
I didn't know that I
could do any of this
until I was doing it.
>>NOORY: Are you
aware of what you're
doing when you're doing it?
>>SELIG: Well you know,
I am, but I also often
don't know what's going on.
So I was filmed reading
for a mother who
had a kid with cerebral palsy.
But I didn't know that the
kid had cerebral palsy.
I just knew the
kid had a problem.
And so I tuned into
the kid by name,
and I actually sort of took
on all of his symptoms.
I lost my hearing in one ear.
So I was on camera
saying, is he deaf?
I'm deaf, what's going on?
And I was like,
hitting myself, but I
didn't know what the cause was.
All he kept saying
was, you can't hear me,
you can't hear me.
And I'm saying to this mother,
he's saying, you can't hear me.
>>NOORY: And is he there?
>>SELIG: No, he's
off in Connecticut.
I've never met the kid.
I just had the mother
in front of me.
And the mother's
saying, I can hear him.
So I didn't know what the hell
was going on for some time
into the reading.
But I sort of somatized,
or became, him.
So I know what's going on.
But I don't know
necessarily the causation.
So if I tune in to you, and I
feel that you're really hurt,
I can tune in to
you and maybe you
will tell me why you're hurt.
Or, maybe I'll feel that.
I'm saying, boy
you're really hurt.
And this seems to be around
a collection of people,
and you're defending yourself
and your reputation from them.
And you'll go, yep.
And then we can go into
the specifics psychically,
and then I can move into
the different people
and help you sort of understand
what's going on in your world.
>>NOORY: Sure, I
was going to say,
once you reveal to them what's
going on, what's the next step?
How do you fix that?
>>SELIG: Well again,
it's not fixing.
It's about understanding it.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>SELIG: And I think
once it's understood,
it really can be remedied.
>>NOORY: On both sides?
>>SELIG: Well this is
what's interesting.
I'm reading the person
who's coming to me.
And so I'm hearing them and
hearing what the problem is.
But I may also hear from
them, at a higher level, what
they need that they're not
getting, that they may not even
be in touch with.
And when I go to
the other person
I may hear a very,
very different story.
So for example, the
spouse may be saying,
I just need to be respected.
You're just not respecting me.
Nothing that I do
is ever good enough.
And then the other partner is
going, oh my God, that's true.
And then we can
sort of negotiate.
Now the funny thing that
happens sometimes when I work
is that the other person,
who I've never met,
who's not in the
room, I can feel
them begin to shift as
well at a higher level.
So by the end of the
reading they're going,
OK I'm going to
try it differently.
Now I don't know because I
don't go home with these people
and find out how it plays out.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>SELIG: I do get
the reports back.
But I think that what's
actually happening
is that we're all in
communication at a higher
level.
So even the person
that's not there--
because I'm not a
psychic spy, I don't
say that I do that--
I am in conversation
with people on a higher level.
And I can tune in to people,
either a personality level,
or perhaps at the time
a problem was created.
I remember once I
read for a woman.
She's a lovely woman.
She was on the phone.
I don't even know
what she looked like.
But I tuned in to her and
this divorce that she had,
and I said it was
literally a hit and run.
I said you're lying by
the side of the road
and you haven't gotten up
for the last four years.
And it was like-- I don't
remember how long it was.
But she said, exactly
right, for four years--
>>NOORY: She knew that.
>>SELIG: Yeah, for four years.
I mean you know, the
spouse hadn't told her.
It came out of the blue.
She was served with papers.
Her life was completely, you
know, transformed by somebody
else.
But the realization that
she couldn't move on,
or couldn't move forward,
and what was really going on,
and the dynamic that
it wasn't about her,
or why he did what he did, was
hopefully liberating for her
to make the changes in her
life that she needed to.
You know how some
people know who
is on the phone when
the phone rings?
I think that's because
whoever is calling
you is in your space
already saying, here I am,
I'm calling you.
And they're imagining
if you're home
and about to pick up the phone.
At a higher level,
we're always talking.
We just don't
always know we are.
>>NOORY: How many people are
really aboveboard with you
when you talk to them?
>>SELIG: Are really
aboveboard in terms
of what they really want?
>>NOORY: What's inside of them?
I mean, do they admit it?
If you say to somebody,
for example, you really
are hurting, are
they open with you?
>>SELIG: Yeah, most of them are.
I mean, there is not
a desire to protect.
You know, I do a lot of
workshops where my guides come
through in channel,
but people come through
with their questions.
And I'll read them this way
publicly in front of a hundred
people or something.
And you know, my guides
are respectful about what
they'll do in a public way.
And I don't expect that person
to air out their dirty laundry
in public.
There's no need to.
But in a one on one, you
know, session, why not?
And truthfully I always say,
if it doesn't feel right,
don't work with it.
>>NOORY: Don't do it.
>>SELIG: Stay in your own power.
I don't want anybody's power.
I'm completely
uninterested in it.
>>NOORY: Well I've
got a question for you
on video, Paul, so
let's take a look.
>>AUDIENCE: When
it comes to kind
of connecting with our-- those
who come before, our ancestors,
and being able to
ask them questions,
I would ask you
whether you think
that those answers are kind of
contained within us already?
I mean, are we all connected
to our ancestors in this way,
in this kind of like, DNA way?
I mean, does information, do you
think, get passed on from life
to life like, in a genetic way?
Is there genetic memory?
These questions that we might
pose our dear and departed
ones, are they actually
contained within us?
>>NOORY: OK now I'm
not quite so sure what
he was trying to ask
you, but it sounds
like he wants to know if there's
a connection between the living
and the dead?
>>SELIG: Well yeah, there is.
And that's not the
way that I work.
My guides who I
work with, they say,
some of us and been in
bodies, some of us haven't.
But I also hear
him saying, are we
being supported by
people on the other side?
Absolutely.
But also, do we hold the
memory from other lifetimes?
And I actually feel that we do.
Now I also feel
though, that if you're
having an issue
in this lifetime--
and I have plenty of my own
that may have been created
at another time--
they're going to come up
now to be dealt with.
So I don't spend a
lot of time digging.
And you know occasionally, on
reading for somebody and all
of a sudden, I'm seeing
them wearing clothing
from another time,
I go OK, here we go.
But that's a rare
occurrence for me,
because the here and
now is really, I think,
where things are dealt with.
I think it's fun to go
diving into all that stuff,
and it can be very beneficial
for somebody who's opening up.
But I also think it can
take us out of the moment.
>>NOORY: It can be
dangerous too, couldn't it?
>>SELIG: Well I mean, I think
anything can be dangerous,
depending on how
you attend to it.
You know, I shouldn't
be eating sugar,
because I get stoned from it.
I love it, but I shouldn't
be getting stoned because--
>>NOORY: It's not
that good for you.
>>SELIG: And it's
not good for you.
But when I'm checked
out of my body, which
isn't a good thing
for me to do, I
can then hook into
lower energies.
And I don't want to do that.
To do my work, I've got
to stay pretty clean.
So is it dangerous?
If you're looking to use
spirituality as a way
to escape your life, yes.
If you're looking to
spirituality to teach you
about your life and actually
that life is much more amazing
than we assume it to be,
it can be very valuable.
So anything can be
used in any way.
>>NOORY: Are you
like Edgar Cayce
in that you go into a trance
state to pick up information?
>>SELIG: You know
I've been compared
to Cayce only in that my guides
dictate books through me.
And I literally sit in
a chair, close my eyes.
There's a phone,
there is somebody
in Berkeley taking notes,
but everything is recorded.
And my guides dictate
the entire books
that are then transcribed and
published without editing.
So like, I don't write anything.
So there is now four
of these in print
which are spiritual teachings.
And I really just sit
there and it comes through.
>>NOORY: It just
comes through you.
You're an automatic
writer, basically.
>>SELIG: It's nonstop.
Well, I'm taking
dictation, truthfully.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>SELIG: It's interesting to me.
And Cayce brought through
an enormous amount of work.
But so have others
that came before him.
I actually don't go into trance.
I do go into a trance, but
I'm a conscious channel.
So I'm not in a deep trance.
I do remember what's
coming through,
but at different levels.
So I like to put it this way.
It's kind of like, right now
I'm in the driver's seat.
We're having a conversation.
If the guides come
through sort of casually,
they might be sitting next to me
and saying, bah, bah, bah, bah,
bah.
And I'll just sort of repeat it.
When I'm really
working, when I'm
doing a lecture or
a workshop, when
they're doing a
book through me, I
climb into the back
seat of the car.
Sometimes I'm hanging
over the front seat,
because I don't
trust what's going on
and I want to make
sure everything's OK.
And I really do question
all of the information that
comes through me as it comes.
If something so far out
that I can't conceive of it,
I have to sort of say,
hey, wait a minute.
And then they really
do have to say OK,
and then unpack the
teaching for me.
And this stuff ends
up in the books,
because I interrupt the
book dictations frequently.
Other times-- and these
are my favorite times--
I climb into the
back seat of the car,
and it's like I'm
reading a magazine.
And they're just talking.
Remember being a kid?
Your parents are in the front
seat, you're in the back seat.
You're sort of listening to
what they're talking about--
>>NOORY: You're in
a different world.
>>SELIG: That's what
it is at its best.
And I love being in that place.
And then I love sort
of seeing or hearing
what's come out, because the
teachings-- which are really
progressing in ways that
are extraordinary to me,
because they're really going
to places that I'm not that
comfortable with,
in terms of how
we're all co-creating reality--
you know, it's fascinating.
But if I'm listening
too closely,
I'm going to stop it, because
I'm going to get nervous.
>>NOORY: We're with the
spiritual channeler Paul Selig.
Paul, the guides that you
tap into, who are they?
>>SELIG: Well you know,
they're only called the guides.
I call them the guides.
And they're only
called the guides
because my ex, when
my ex found out I
could do this, used to
say, ask the guides this.
Ask the guides that.
And that's how
they got the name.
And people say, oh,
Paul and the guides.
They say that they're teachers.
They've used the term "ascended
masters" in the first book.
And perhaps because I
had some uncomfortability
with that term, they don't
use it frequently anymore.
But there is a name that
they've come through with,
and it's been consistent
for many years.
And they don't announce it much.
And I was always surprised in
a workshop when they would say,
we are, or I am.
But it's usually
the collective "we."
And that's this Melchizedek,
which is really a priesthood.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SELIG: And the only reason I'm
mentioning it now is in the new
book, I was quite surprised--
"The Book Of Mastery"--
they said, if you want
to call us something,
you can call us this.
And I went OK, they've said it.
They're outing
themselves at this level.
The challenge that I
have with the names,
truthfully, is I think that
we like to attach things
to names, sort of ego stuff.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>SELIG: So when I was first
getting interested in all
this work, and I
live in Manhattan,
and I would hear things
like, well there's
an archangel Michael,
and Michael's channeling
on the Upper West Side.
But Gabriel's
channeling in Brooklyn,
and you really want
to go see Gabriel.
And I'm thinking,
this is kind of crazy.
It's kind of like, who's
the rock star of the minute?
>>NOORY: Yeah
>>SELIG: And truthfully
you know, truth is truth.
Truth is truth.
Truth can come through in the
form that it comes through me
and how I'm being worked with.
It can come through somebody
else who is not a channel.
But finally, truth
has its own resonance.
And you know it.
When I'm doing this
stuff-- which I still
think it's kind of nuts and
far out-- but I show up again
and again and again.
>>NOORY: But it happens.
>>SELIG: It happens.
And when it's happening,
I can't deny it.
And I can't deny how accurate
it's been in many ways.
And no matter how, you know,
articulate I may be-- I
mean I was a college
teacher for 25 years.
I just left that whole life.
>>NOORY: I bet you were
a great college teacher.
>>SELIG: You know, I was.
I loved it.
Actually I loved
every minute of it.
>>NOORY: You would make
your course interesting.
I could tell right now.
>>SELIG: Thanks.
You know, I had a great time.
I had a great time.
But also it was the best
part of me that came forth.
And I feel in retrospect
that I was being prepared
for some of what I do now.
I learned how to hold a room.
I learned how to show up and
not be frightened of talking,
you know?
There were things
that I learned.
I used to teach playwriting.
And the funny thing
was, I used to teach
Aristotle, which really, I
read one thing by Aristotle.
That's the one thing I was told
I had to teach in this course.
But what he did do
was talk about why
people do what they do.
And it actually
gave me a vocabulary
to be able to talk
to people about life.
>>NOORY: Was he the
student of Plato?
>>SELIG: Yeah.
Yeah.
And he wrote a book
called "The Poetics."
>>NOORY: And they got
him with hemlock, right?
>>SELIG: You know, probably.
Everybody seems to have
been gotten with something,
one time or another.
So I don't know
what I was saying,
but I don't remember
what I was saying.
I interrupted myself by
saying I was a teacher.
So what was the question prior?
>>NOORY: Well, we were dealing
with the ability of tapping
into who these guides were?
>>SELIG: Oh, who they are.
Truth is truth, no matter
what form it comes in.
There's actually a
quote from the woman
who channeled a course in
miracles, Helen Schucman.
And I'm actually not a
student of the course.
I tried to read it
once, and it was
very beautiful, but very dense.
And I actually don't
read spiritual stuff,
partially because I want
to keep the channel--
>>NOORY: Keep it open.
>>SELIG: --keep it
clean, you know?
I'd like to be reading
physics, because my guides
are talking about that stuff.
But I don't because I let
their vocabulary work with me.
But she said something about
what she did that I loved.
And she said, you know,
I don't believe it,
but I know it's true.
And that's how I feel.
>>NOORY: That's the way it is.
>>SELIG: That's
just the way it is.
It's happening.
And if it's happening,
it's possible.
I mean it shouldn't
be possible that I
can step into somebody's
child or wife or husband
and become them in a way
that they might recognize.
What it shows me
is that we're not
just this body, and
frankly, that we really
are always in communication.
As an empath, I'm porous.
You know, for whatever
reasons, I can feel.
And I have language that
comes with a feeling.
And when I'm working psychically
or clairaudiently, I'm hearing.
But I'm hearing differently.
My ears aren't even used.
It's really another
voice fills the head,
you know, and sort of
pushes my consciousness
to the back seat of the car.
And they say, OK, here we go.
>>NOORY: Well let's go
out to our roving cam
and get another
question for Paul.
>>AUDIENCE: Paul,
my question for you
would be how do you find a
balance between this world
and the afterlife?
I know when you can kind
of tap into other realms,
it's easy to get
a little flighty.
And so my question
would be, how do you
maintain that balance
and that grounding?
>>NOORY: How do you
maintain that balance?
>>SELIG: Well the first
thing I want to say
is that I don't think
of myself as special.
And I'm very aware of that.
I'm this guy that
has some ability.
And I show up for it.
And I seem to be being very
well-supported in some ways
by the guides that I work with.
I have a different
experience, perhaps,
than other people of feeling.
But I actually think
that what I do,
we're all capable of at
one level or another.
We live in a world where we were
told these things don't exist.
And because we were told
that, we buy into it.
And then we we're
depriving ourselves
of a level of experience
that's accessible.
You know, I do this in my
workshops all the time.
I have people tune
into each other.
Everybody can feel the energy.
You can feel it.
It's palpable.
>>NOORY: You can feel it.
It's there.
And it's positive.
>>SELIG: It's very positive.
But because you can
feel it yourself,
you have your own
experience of it.
So for me, I'll tell you
what's hard for me, truthfully.
I don't like crowds.
I don't like anything loud.
I'm very content to be at home.
When somebody is
angry with me, I
can often feel it,
although I don't know
who's angry, which isn't fun.
It's mostly talking.
You know, ever hear,
you know, your ears
must have been ringing?
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>SELIG: Well when
somebody is talking crap--
>>NOORY: That must
[INAUDIBLE] itself with you.
>>SELIG: It stinks.
Well actually, I
don't necessarily
feel the good stuff.
But when somebody is speaking
something about me that's
not so good, I literally
feel like I've got somebody
banging a chopstick.
>>NOORY: And you just feel it
coming in from some source?
>>SELIG: I just know
somebody is pissed.
And then it passes.
And usually I'll be able to
find out who it is or clear it.
But I have a very good support
system of other people.
>>NOORY: What would
they be mad at you
about, for crying out loud?
>>SELIG: Anything,
anything at all.
I mean they saw something on
the internet, they disagreed.
You know, anybody can be
angry at anybody for anything.
>>NOORY: I see.
So work-related, basically.
>>SELIG: Well,
yeah, it could be.
But you know, it's very funny.
It doesn't happen much
anymore by the way,
and there's a reason
for it, because I'm
learning not to care so much.
And I used to care enormously.
>>NOORY: You used to
let it bother you.
>>SELIG: Yeah.
The first time somebody
interviewed me,
I was channeling on a show.
And I was heavier than
I am now, and rocking
back and forth in
a chair, whispering
and repeating to myself.
I looked like a lunatic.
And all of these three-minute
clips were all over YouTube
with me.
And it had these headlines
like, Paul Selig Channeling
on ET Realities.
Like, oh brother, I
could feel the judgement.
I went to bed for two days.
I could feel it all, physically.
And I said to the
guides, you know
if you want me to
do this work, why
are you letting this happen?
And their response--
>>NOORY: You're killing me!
>>SELIG: Pretty much.
And their response was, as long
as you care what people think,
it's going to be an issue.
And truthfully what had happened
was, I had a glass to the wall.
I was dying to know
what everybody thought.
>>NOORY: Oh no.
You have to become Teflon, Paul.
>>SELIG: Well you do.
But I didn't know
that then, you know?
And it's the
challenge, I think--
to go back to the
viewer's question--
is I can't pride
myself in sensitivity.
We're all sensitive.
But I can sort of realize that
if something's impacting me,
it tends to mean
there's something
that I need to be working on.
So it's always an opportunity.
>>NOORY: You have an
ability to channel.
I've heard you go
into this other realm.
Can you do it at will?
Can we do it now?
>>SELIG: I can do it at will.
I mean, you know, I once did a
book signing and somebody said,
will you channel the
guides at the book signing?
And the guides came
through, and they said,
we are not the entertainment.
And that was the end
of what they did.
>>NOORY: That was it.
>>SELIG: But what they do
do is they'll come through
and they'll answer questions
that I can answer, you know?
So yes, I mean, we're ready.
They're saying, we're ready.
So they're present for this.
>>NOORY: So I should
just ask you a question?
>>SELIG: You can try it.
>>NOORY: See what happens.
>>SELIG: If you wish, yeah.
>>NOORY: Guides, what
is the other side?
We hear so much about it in
our living world, where people
talk about the other side.
>>SELIG:
[WHISPERS INDISTINCTLY]
(ALTERNATING VOICES)
The other side
is everything-- that
exists-- that exists--
beyond the physical realm--
but beyond the physical realm--
that you know yourself
through-- that you know yourself
through-- your experience
here-- your experience
here is codified-- is codified--
and rather limited-- and rather
limited-- you imagine the
sky-- you imagine the sky is
above you-- is above you.
When in fact the sky.
But in fact the sky is
permeating all things--
is permeating all things.
You actually don't
realize-- you actually
don't realize-- that what
you are-- that what you are--
exists at higher levels as
well-- exists in higher levels
as well.
As you attend to those
levels-- and as you--
attend to those levels--
attend to those levels.
You have a
correspondence to them--
you have a
correspondence to them.
As we operate here--
as we operate here--
we bypass his own
fear-- we bypass
his own fear-- of what
may be-- of what may
be in play, what is in claim.
What he is-- in a higher
octave-- in a higher octave--
all things are one--
all things are one.
And you discriminate-- and
you discriminate-- one thing
about the next-- one
thing about the next.
What the other side is--
so what the other side is--
is what is actually here--
is what is actually here.
But it's operating
beyond-- but it's
operating beyond--
physical reality--
the physical reality--
you know yourself
as and through--
you know yourselves
as and through-- period.
And they're saying, period.
>>NOORY: Is there a Hell?
>>SELIG: (ALTERNATING
VOICES) If you wish it--
if you wish it-- if you wish you
can have one-- if you wish it
you can have one.
What we decide is
Hell-- what you
decide is hell-- may
well be your hell--
may well be your hell.
But is that a place with fire--
but is that a place with fire--
and a Devil-- and a Devil?
Absolutely not-- absolutely
not-- no more than there
is a Heaven-- no more than there
is a Heaven-- with an old man
and a beard-- with an
old man and a beard.
All things are one--
all things are one.
Finally-- finally-- the belief
in Hell-- the belief in Hell--
is a belief in fear--
and if you're to
be judged by fear--
and if you're going
to be judged by fear--
you go to Hell--
and learn your lesson that way--
and learn your lesson that way.
In fact, you don't have to--
in fact, you don't have to.
The moment you
realize-- the moment
you realize-- that who and
what you are-- that who
and what you are-- is an
aspect of the divine--
is an aspect of the
divine-- like it
or not-- like it or not-- agree
to it or not-- agree to it
or not.
You lift your whole field-- you
lift your whole field-- to what
isn't truth-- to what isn't
truth-- and the idea of hell--
and the idea of hell--
which is a fear-- which
is a fear-- is a lie-- is a
lie-- because a lie does not
exist in truth-- because a
lie does not exist in truth.
When you know who and what
you are-- when you know who
and what you are-- and you
align to the truth of what
you are-- and you align to
the truth of what you are-- it
becomes your expression--
it becomes your expression.
The idea of hell--
the idea of hell--
as a level of vibration-- as
a level of vibration-- we can
comprehend-- we can comprehend.
There is low vibration-- there
is low vibration-- but even
God-- but even God-- exists
there-- exists there.
Your belief in separation--
your belief in separation--
that you are not one
with your source--
is the dilemma you face--
is the dilemma you face.
So you've created a Hell--
so you've created a Hell.
He has a question-- he has a
question-- but is the belief
that we are separate--
but is the belief that we
are separate-- still
here-- still here?
Not really-- not really.
If you imagine Hell--
if you imagine Hell--
as a physical realm--
you are mistaken--
you are mistaken.
If you can imagine Hell-- if you
can imagine Hell-- as a place
an ignorant self-- an ignorant
self-- places itself-- places
itself-- because she does
not realize she is-- loved
because she does not realize
she is loved-- you will have
a better idea of it-- you
will have a better idea of it.
Those parts of you--
those parts of you--
that would deny your worth--
deny love-- deny love--
are seeking love--
are seeking love.
And if you go to your source--
and if you go to your source--
the divine self-- the divine
self-- the God in all things--
the God in all things-- the
Christ itself, if you prefer--
the Christ itself,
if you prefer--
you are one with what you are--
and you receive what you
need-- and you receive
what you need-- to move
beyond claim-- to move
beyond what you claim-- period.
And they're saying, period.
>>NOORY: One final
question for the guides.
Can you foretell the future?
And if you can, what's
at stake for us?
>>SELIG: (ALTERNATING VOICES)
Everything's at stake for you--
everything's at stake for you--
if you can realize yourself--
if you can realize
yourself-- as what you truly
are-- as what you truly are.
Now this is a very
important teaching-- now
this is a very
important teaching.
Where you stand
right now-- where
you stand right now-- where any
of you stand-- where any of you
stand-- is at a
moment of reckoning--
is at a moment of reckoning--
and a reckoning is--
and a reckoning is-- a facing of
oneself-- a facing of oneself--
and one's own creations--
and one's own creations.
What's been claimed in fear--
what's been claimed in fear--
seeks to rule you--
seeks to rule you.
If you are ruled by fear-- if
you are ruled by fear-- if you
claim things in fear-- if
you claim things in fear--
you will hold a
reality-- you will
hold a reality-- that conforms
to that-- conforms to that.
And as we like to
say-- and as we
like to say-- the action of
fear-- the action of fear--
is to claim more fear--
is to claim more fear.
The moment mankind realizes
herself-- the moment mankind
realizes herself--
himself-- himself--
as what she truly is-- as what
she truly-- an aspect of God--
an aspect of God-- and
stops lying to themselves--
and stops lying to themselves--
about what they are--
about what they are-- they
will claim a new world-- they
will claim a new world.
And a wondrous world, we would
say-- and a wondrous world,
we would say-- because
your investment in that--
because your investment
in what you've had--
and your need to replicate
the known-- and your need
to replicate the known--
is what is causing
all the mayhem here-- is what
is causing all the mayhem here.
You will not fix your lives--
you will not fix your lives--
but you may transform them--
but you may transform them.
He is saying, what is at stake--
he is saying, what is at stake?
Everything, if you wish--
everything, if you wish.
You have choices to
make-- you have choices
to make-- one and all--
one and all-- about who you
are-- about who you are.
You cannot be the light--
you cannot be the light--
and hold anything-- and
hold anything-- or anyone--
or anyone-- in
darkness-- in darkness.
Period.
And they're saying, period.
>>NOORY: Now Paul, are
you aware of what's going
on when you're doing that.
>>SELIG: Yes.
>>NOORY: Is it
exhausting for you?
>>SELIG: Not necessarily.
I mean, I'm trying to
think about out how
to describe what it feels like.
>>NOORY: And whoever it
had a British accent.
>>SELIG: Yeah, that's been
that way since the second book
was channeled.
And I was fairly
appalled when it started.
And I didn't know-- and
truthfully some days I'm
still not entirely sure--
if the accent wasn't
created to create the
distinction between Paul
and that.
But I used to say,
you know, oh I
like it when the
guide with the accent
comes through, because the
language would always flow.
And when the language
flowed, I would trust it
and recede even farther.
Now the second book
that I channeled,
because the recordings
exist, there's
an accent that sort of flies
across the British Isles.
I'm going, what
the heck is this?
And the poor woman on the phone
didn't know what to make of it.
One day it was like, high
Edinburgh, and the next day
it was like, Welsh.
She's going, what is this?
And then it landed.
And I didn't know
what to make of it.
But then I went and looked
back at the transcripts
from prior books.
There was one prior
book, but there
were lectures preceding that.
And the cadence and the syntax
of the sentences is unchanged.
So the guides have
always said things like,
you and your fellows.
Now I've never said your
fellows about a gang
of people in my life, nor
do I think I ever would.
It's just not my vocabulary.
So the vocabulary
that they work with
seems extraordinarily
consistent with the accent
that comes through.
But it also allows me--
and there are other voices,
or expressions of
the voice-- they all
seem to have the accent
or a variation of it.
The woman who has been on the
phone for all of the books
was convinced, and
may still be-- we
haven't talked about it
for a very long time--
that I was channeling
an Indian who was
schooled in the British system.
I don't experience that at all.
But I actually once did
hear-- it was on YouTube.
I was like, cleaning
the apartment,
and all of a sudden
I heard what I
thought was my guide
speaking, because I understood
the cadence and the language.
And I went, and it was actually
Krishna Murti had shown up.
And I was like, wow,
that's really comparable.
>>NOORY: Same voice?
>>SELIG: Very similar.
But do I think I'm
channeling Krishnamurti?
No, I don't, you know.
>>NOORY: Would they tell you?
>>SELIG: Probably they would.
But I have to say, if
there's information
that I'm going to
balk at or run from,
they have been rather
careful, you know.
I mean, I show up for these book
sessions, dictation sessions,
not knowing the chapter, or
what's going to come next.
And I do workshops where
I literally sit down
before a lot of people, close
my eyes, and this comes through.
And I don't know what
they're going to talk about.
>>NOORY: What is the message
they really want us to know.
>>SELIG: (ALTERNATING
VOICES) Who the hell you are.
And that's from them.
Who the hell you really are--
who the hell you really are.
You are not what you think--
and you are not what you think.
Period.
And they're saying, period.
(NORMAL VOICE) So who we are.
They're saying the divine self
is the truth of who we are.
They've said, you
know, we're operating
in a personality structure.
And we think we're our
stuff, we're our job titles.
We think we're how we are
relating to our society.
But that's not who we are.
The eternal self,
or the divine self,
they've called it the
Christ itself as well--
and their definition
of Christ has always
been the aspect of
the creator that can
be realized in material form.
It's the divine self, or
the inner spark, whatever.
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>SELIG: But they say that
that's the truth of who we are.
And what that
aspect of us wishes
is to be expressed
as and through us.
And when I work with people,
that's the experience.
I mean you really do get
to witness somebody else
and the world in a
very different way.
>>NOORY: Do you ever ask
them specific questions
that you want answered?
>>SELIG: I could,
and I don't enough.
Once in awhile I'll have a
friend take a list, or somebody
that I work with that helps me.
They'll say, OK I'm going to
ask your guides about this one.
And the guides will
happily come through.
It's challenging for me
to channel for myself,
because I have an
investment in an outcome.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>SELIG: And that's my ego
and that's all that stuff.
And that's why a lot of psychics
won't read for themselves.
But I will say what
they're very good with.
They're very good with
supporting me and not
making choices based in fear.
And they have said,
and I think they
said it here, you know
the action of fear
is to claim more fear.
And they say, if you look
at every choice you've ever
made in your life that you made
in fear, see what it got you.
And you'll you probably see
you got a whole bunch more
fear back.
So they're wonderful counselors
for me in the moment,
but their teaching
is of the moment.
They say, you can only
know who you are now.
We can only be now.
I mean, this is really it.
>>NOORY: Do they ever
get upset with you?
>>SELIG: Yes, as
a matter of fact.
It's in the books.
They do.
I don't know that
it's upset, really.
I feel love from them.
But I'm also rather happy
when they sort of put me
in my place.
It's actually a relief for
me, because it helps me
to trust what's coming through.
So if I say something like,
say, in a book dictation, as it
happens, I have a question.
I have a hard time with this.
And they say, we will
take your question later.
We are teaching.
I'm actually really happy,
because I'll shut up and let
it come through.
So I like it.
Whenever I'm
channeling and I start
to predict where I think they're
going to go, like for example,
if I were to say to
you, it was the night
before you'd want to fill
in like, Christmas, right?
Now that would be the obvious.
So if I hear a sentence and I
think I know where it's going,
they'll usually change the word
on me, just to throw me off,
so that I'm being reminded that
they're driving in the car.
>>NOORY: Is it always that
same voice that I just
heard that comes through?
>>SELIG: It has been
when I do groups
and when I do the
book dictations.
Only recently-- and I'm really
going to say very recently--
I was channeling in
Portland, Oregon last week,
and I was working in
New York City yesterday,
and I had been noticing
another voice coming through.
It's a richer baritone.
It doesn't feel
quite as-- you know,
I have a friend who's a medium,
who I respect enormously.
And she sees my
guides and things.
And she said, oh yes there's
like that Dumbledore guide,
is how she sees him.
And I'm fine with that.
This other one feels
rather different.
He feels younger and-
>>NOORY: More modern?
>>SELIG: No, he doesn't
feel more modern.
They don't feel modern.
And truthfully the language--
>>NOORY: They sound
like they're 1800s.
>>SELIG: Well, or prior.
>>NOORY: Or, prior.
>>SELIG: I mean, the
one that I've seen
was dressed with a hat that I've
never seen before in my life.
It was like those
things you wear
at graduation with the
peaked cap but it went up.
And there was a thing
at the top of it.
And he was amazing,
with this long beard,
he was a beautiful man.
Truly, beautiful eyes.
>>NOORY: 1600s?
1500s?
>>SELIG: I don't know.
I think we're going way back.
>>NOORY: Way back even further.
>>SELIG: I do, I
really do think that.
But I think it's
also a collective.
So who knows who's
part of the group.
>>NOORY: That's fascinating.
>>SELIG: But I do know that
they used the word internet once
in a teaching, and I
still don't trust it.
Like, I was like, internet?
>>NOORY: Where did
that come from?
>>SELIG: Yeah!
But for the most part,
they talk about telegraphs
and steamships.
And they still call
my computer a TV.
So if I go, am I going
to hear from so and so?
They'll say, yes, on the TV.
>>NOORY: Yeah, that's
what they call it.
>>SELIG: Which
means, it's a screen.
>>NOORY: How do people
get a hold of you how?
Do they track you
on your website?
>>SELIG: You know
it's just my name,
paulselig.com is my website.
>>NOORY: S-E-L-I-G?
>>SELIG: S-E-L-I-G.
That's how people find me.
>>NOORY: Paul, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>SELIG: Thank
you for having me.
>>NOORY: It's fascinating.
I feel like I've interviewed
several people today.
Paul and his spirit guide.
I'm George Noory, and
this is "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]
"